== Hadoop DFS (HDFS) bindings for Ruby

This library provides native C bindings to Hadoop's libhdfs, for interacting with Hadoop DFS.

=== Requirements

You will need:

* Java JDK and JRE (yes, both). The build file will attempt to find it for you.
* Hadoop's libhdfs. On Ubuntu/Debian you will need libhdfs0 and libhdfs0-dev.
* Hadoop Core and DFS libraries.

=== Installation

Install from gems. Note that you will need to provide JAVA_HOME so the compiler can find the
required libraries.

The installation will attempt to discover the location of the libaries, but if it fails, 
you can try setting the environment variable JAVA_LIB to the library path of the JDK/JRE.

Installing with a specific Java JDK:

  sudo env JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk gem install ruby-hdfs
  
=== Using
  
The library also depends on an installation of Hadoop DFS. The Cloudera distribution of 
Hadoop is pretty good:

  http://www.cloudera.com/distribution
  
Sample classpath setup (yes, welcome to JAR hell):

  export CLASSPATH=$CLASSPATH:/usr/lib/hadoop/hadoop-0.18.3-6cloudera0.3.0-core.jar
  for jarfile in /usr/lib/hadoop/lib/*.jar; do
    export CLASSPATH=$CLASSPATH:$jarfile
  done

Wait, there's more. You will also need libjvm.so in your library path, which comes with 
the JRE. This might work:

  export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk/jre/lib/i386/server

=== Known issues

Not all APIs have been implemented yet.

libhdfs will sometimes throw exceptions, which will be output instead of caught by Ruby.
This is annoying but harmless.

=== Building from source

To build from source:

  rake compile
 
On completion, the compiled extension will be available in ext/hdfs.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Alexander Staubo. See LICENSE for details.
